going to start streaming see my
cart no I just have a bunch of random
[__] in there okay so what happened
yesterday basically we have this that I
printed and I could open up infusion but
anyways the mechanism of this was
designed to first off there's a little
chimney and if we do this right you have
two balls stuck in the chamber now
the well the first problem is they just
roll out so I didn't make the dimensions
correct but the other
problem and this one's way worse because
I don't really know how to resolve
this
is first off okay so it's so
the it doesn't push it but the fact that
it's too high is not really an issue but
if I lift this up and raise it to
simulate what it would be like and then
I turn
it you can see
that what's up
okay so
basically um you can see here that this
thing gets uberly stuck like there's
just no way it's going to push it
through so that's a huge problem so my
solution is I'm going to to get I well I
bought one of these
solenoids and I instead of using two
parts like this the idea is I'm just
going to use one part I'm going to make
this much shorter it's just going to
push it into the flywheel but the thing
is this comes tomorrow
so right now I just want to do something
kind of
fun
and look finally look to
getting blink working on my
Pico specifically my picco w and the
thing that we're going to try to do is
we're going to try to do a t use this
time of flight
sensor with my
PW
so I don't think it's supposed to be
that hard right
I wonder if I could just run
this reques Russ nightly what the hell
bro
so can I just run
this wait it needs its own installer you
can't just do cargo install
I don't want to do a Wi-Fi scan I
I okay well first thing is first um
okay let me do this
no it actually might be hold on I got to
go get a
micro micro USB
cable
e
e e
okay so something that I think would be
fun to do yeah it is rust time baby it's
definitely R time I have been itching to
do just a programming thing for a while
especially a programming thing with in a
language that actually has a is nice to
use I don't know I think this is
probably going to be pretty painful to
be quite honest but
we will see we will
see
okay oh wait do I have to hold boot no I
don't think I do
okay so so the the main thing that I
want to do is I want to get this yeah
yeah yeah I I'll probably want to maybe
you hop on Discord or something like
that honestly I can stay in the voice
chat if you just want to provide
commentary but I understand if you don't
want to do that but um
basically uh we have this thing called
the time oflight sensor and what that
does is it shoots a little
infrared flash
out
and um and it and it based on the time
that it takes to come back it determines
the the distance and so what we're going
to use this for is determining whether
or not we're sort of out of bullets or
something has gone wrong so we have and
I I don't think you were here maybe when
I explained what went wrong with
yesterday's
design but there are a ton of bugs and
this thing just basically does not work
the most
serious problem which I don't really
know how to resolve besides using a
different part is yeah so okay so the
first
bug is this was not supposed to just
freely roll out this thing here was
supposed to be low enough that these
couldn't roll out but that's not really
that big of a deal the bigger issue is
if I'm going to raise this up to
simulate what it's like and then I move
the
servo here's what
happens this thing just gets totally
jammed in here it's actually not it's
only uh 22
mm so it's not that big but the biggest
problem is that it just gets totally
jammed in
there so that's no good so the
solution is to use a
solenoid A push pull solenoid and this
basically you uh it has a coil of wire
which becomes an electromagnet oh no
dude yeah okay so actually that's a good
point because I was so and sort of
thinking about
um BBS and using like compressed air
with BBs but the problem is if I'm going
to cover my canvas I would need like
375,000 BBS so it's just not going to
it's just not going to work
um um but yeah so what a solenoid is is
there it's basically just a coil of wire
and inside there's some
magnetic thing and when you give it
current the coil wire turns into
electromagnet and it propels the thing
forward and then when you disconnect
power the spring pulls it back so this
is a much simpler design on how to how
we're going to do this
thing they' Splash probably for well so
we don't so I'm not using paintballs
right I'm using Nerf balls that are
going to be covered in paint and
obviously it's I mean not obviously but
it's likely that I'll have to Pivot this
and not you know as I'm going along with
this we'll see the failure points but
um the reason for this is because I
don't want the splash I want to sort of
minimize unintended I want to
deliberately put a dot of paint in this
place and with the splash you get all
sorts of weird Dynamics and
[__] but
um let's
see this thing seems like such a big
thing is there just a
guide oh yeah I don't know if I
said yeah I just ate one of the
[Laughter]
balls bro that's so good no it's
blackberries that would be so [__]
funny though I just casually was
snacking on
these oh my God that's so
funny um
whoa tasket transformed at compile time
into State
machines that is very that seems pretty
sick
um I have an ESP so I could use ESP but
I love the Pico so
much but this I don't think that this
[Music]
okay wait are there
guides okay here's the get started so
you want to try Embassy wait can I
change the freaking theme on this thing
dude what the [__] right wait oh so this
is just to read
me no I don't
know yeah I just want to do the getting
started I
can't oh wait I actually want to see
this wait is that Pico
W yeah
okay so you want to try Embassy to get
started here there are a few tools you
need to install first up rust up prob RS
all right let me just run the probe RS
command because I was looking at
that wait what the [__] why is that not
a copy
button wait this isn't going to work on
um
Windows what's irm I've never seen
irm oh wow it's the Alias for that's so
[__]
silly all right cool
getting a board with examples Embassy
supports many microcontroller families
but the quickest way to get started is
by using a board which Embassy has
existing example code
for oh that's such an L bro I don't
think because
okay oh my God look at this wiring
dude that's pretty sweet though
I don't have just a normal
Pico what was that thing called a c
cyw maybe it's an
RP wait I just want to take a real guess
this is a template for running an
application
in rust on the Raspberry Pi PCO W I feel
like we should just try
this okay wait but how do
we is literally all that we have to do
just cargo run
or oh here we go how does the cargo run
command know how to connect our board
and program
it there's
a e
okay oh whoa look at that debugging that
is actually
sick that's really cool dude Russ is so
sick wait so when they where's that
example in embassy's
uh but it doesn't actually but it
probably depends on probe I don't really
understand how these all relate
together maybe I should just try
ESP but I I hate dealing with these esps
because they
don't well let's just try
it is this not going to work
wait I don't
understand what is this
thing whoa this is so sick I'm pretty
sure this is Kad no I don't know if it's
Kad oh that's so cool they designed
a they designed this board specifically
to be for rust
death oh okay the issue
is I don't have there's no example for
specifically the Pico w maybe we'll just
try
this we'll just try the Pico and see if
it works so it's probably going to be
under
RP but wait oh wait we cloned this okay
so let's just try
this let's just try
it what's the worst that could
happen this repo is a little bit old
but presumably it knows how to flash my
Pico that's what probe RS
does I'm going to finally change this uh
just so I don't know what is it called
docs stream
info let's change it to
um uh rust
on okay hopefully that changed
it dude I hate that sound at one on my
laptop I've disabled that sound cuz this
is the worst thing in the world
makes me want to die like who who
thought it was a good idea to just
constantly
spam classic billgates
nonsense okay let's see what code do
actually oh great
H okay so
wait a dead
man okay I saw
this but look at how much oh wait this
is actually
fine I thought that this was a lot
more oh
wait oh wait hold on maybe I was just
being a little silly so if we go into
this
no okay I don't know what he's talking
about there was a Pico W example
presumably this does not oh I just saw
this guy's um YouTube
video okay when was this written that's
also a good
question 2024 no I don't think that's
the release date let's see there's no
dates on these
things okay whatever blinking the
onboard LED is a pretty common first
project then a new chip also a useful
indicator and debugging tool as you
build out your project yeah so true with
the rp240 PWS this gets a bit trickier
than with the regular
2040 namely in order to account for the
gpio pins needed to drive the Wi-Fi chip
the onboard LED was moved from one of
the pins controlled directly by the
rp240 to one of the pins controlled by
the Wi-Fi
chip this makes blinking the LED a bit
harder since you need to set up the
Wi-Fi co-processor in order to set the
LED high or
low yeah this [__] is totally
stalled I don't really get I don't
really get it but
whatever where the hell is my [__]
okay
wait why don't we just clone
Embassy and just see what's up I'm just
going to try to run this wait but are
these examples I don't think these are
examples this is just a
library is there no okay wait let's just
clone it and I'm going to search in the
examples folder for this uh chip this
wi-fi chip name
what what the [__] are you talking about
oh okay
uh
yeah okay so we're going to
search finding folder and we're going to
look for this
CW is that what it's called No
C oh examples RP wait can we just look
in there
wait are these all
examples oh
wait can we just search in here for
pic oh nice does not work with a PW see
Wi-Fi Blinky oh hell yeah okay
sweet
oops how do I run one of the examples
e
all right all right okay I'm back so
um going to freak if you leave it open
when you leave you go go to the
bathroom I go to the
what okay so Wi-Fi
Blinky so how do we run this cr-- bin
WiFi
Blinky it's crazy all right let's just
read through this code while it's
waiting
is the Pico schematic fully open source
does a data sheet actually give you the
full whatever it's not like I
care I don't know what any of this stuff
does de format bind interrupts all I
need dock
strings I need the Ducks man this is
wild though there's just a binary that
you
include
okay I mean this will be freaking rad if
it
works this would be so sick
wait don't I can't I do this
okay what's rust Rover
oh
cool should I try this out
[Music]
wow that actually does look kind of sick
I have to try it out um
wait can you hear me
that's cuz I'm compiling freaking 300
packages
bro I know I could see okay so I'm using
like a wait can I listen to
it okay wait hold on how how does it
sound what
test test test oh wow it's so
laggy oh my God it's actually crazy
laggy my audio sounds fine though
right can you hear
me that's cuz I'm compiling freaking 300
packages bro wow why is it still delayed
though I know I can see okay so I'm
using like okay wait it's seems like it
just got
unstuck oh no but it's like literally
getting like one like I'm at like yeah
it's like two frames a minute exactly
that's
crazy all right but we're almost done
compiling so I feel like
um I feel like it should be
fine oh wow I mean once it's compil it's
just because rust is rust spun up like
four threads and is compiling all this
[__] but like once once OBS gets its
dedicated thread back or whatever it'll
be
fine but no I have been thinking about
the thing is I'm usually on my laptop
and I don't like I usually like to be
outside but it's going to rain today so
I didn't want to be outside working on
Hardware but um all right wait let
me but
um um what was I saying is basically oh
Jesus no connected probes were found
do I have to hold down boot cell wait
let me just try it again I don't know
this is just a shot in the
dark okay my stream should be better now
right wait hold on I'll go to
Discord it lets me plug my Discord wait
hold on oh close
call yeah it should be fine now now that
I'm done
dude we got to make that an
emoji we got to make that an emoji bro
that's so
funny that's awesome man that's awesome
okay
um hold on so what
failed no okay so I saw this on
um where was it I think it was on this
page
okay yeah so this sounds like my issue I
just started out with embedded rust I
was previously using RP how but lack of
Wi-Fi means I'm giving Embassy a go
immediately while trying to flash to my
PE I was getting an error command IR ran
was run Blinky no connected probes were
found the solution is hidden in the
FAQ how to deploy to rp20 without a
debugging probe I don't even know what
that is
what is a
probe you need to update the examples
rp. cargo cargo. file and you add
this oh
interesting wait but I thought I am
using
probe if I look up probe RS okay see I
have
probe so
get all okay let's just do probe RS
list so that sort of checks out all
right wait why don't we just try this
solution so in the cargo. toml we're
looking for the
runner probe wait maybe
it's oh maybe it's in
this yeah it's not the cargo. Tomo it's
the config
Tomo wait what's up with
this weird ass
okay oh wait is that just cuz this
random ass escaping thing that he has
here
program not found oh well that's even
worse have you had that issue I melted
the button what
That's So
Random oh oh is that what he
said no yeah he said cargo cargo. Tomo
but it's actually called configo but
it's pedantic no
but I don't
understand I don't I don't have any
context for this
right I'm just going to do
this give me context for this discussion
what is a
probe uh I also have a Pico
W and I'm trying to run rust blink on it
but I'm getting no probe
found oh dude this thing is so annoying
oh wait no
on a probe refers to a hardware debugger
that interfaces with your development
board
wait I have to keep all the
escapes definitely not
these definitely not
those but this one
yeah but this this looks like a real
issue because
because
um percent one is not a valid win 32
application okay well wait hold
on this will allow you to flash the Pico
without needing an external debugging
probe I don't understand okay hold on
wait why doesn't why doesn't the thing
even say any of
that the embassy book should say oh you
need this thing
I I have another I actually have another
Pico so let's just see what is pico
probe
yeah I want to go watch that video
by that guy with the mask
on
um I don't trust anyone with thumbnails
like
this why are you making thumbnails like
this where's the other
guy wait why isn't it in my history oh
here it is
and the P uses one called Thum for the
arm V6 and to install the we have to to
the Target we're going to Del one the
thumb p6m none because it's not going to
be running on any OS and eavi which
stands for extended application binary
interface but you don't have to worry
about that next we're installing fing
with cargo you don't need to worry about
what this does but it's pretty
interesting if you want to check it out
okay wait who this
guy now from here we have three options
are you talking about the other guy the
one that matches you you're probably
talking about the other
guy oh okay oh oh
okay oh interesting wait do they sell
that yeah you're talking about this guy
right oh
wait uh
the freaking hat bro whatever I don't
want to roast him he's he's probably a
nice
guy oh my
God wait can I just watch the video I
have one Pico
if you only have a single people you
want to install EF to uf2 RS make sure
to include the lock this is new
okay this guy sounds like he knows what
he's talking about
man crab
rust follow for more all
right oh wait maybe I just didn't have
maybe I just didn't have this that's why
it
failed because presumably wait what was
the error that it actually
gave there was a no program found but
that I think is the
wrong I think that was the wrong thing
because I think that that was just an
issue of the
escaping yeah no worries bro
peace for sure for
sure for sure
you're going
to if you have more one you want to one
with the i l with instruction how I want
to figure out how to get rid of this
freaking doubling of
audio it should do like a noise
reduction where it it checks desktop
audio damn all right whatever that on
the article and on the description doing
this you'll turn one of your pios into
debug probe which unlocks superpowers
you'll have to wire your posos like this
these two wires are optional and if you
add this one you won't have to use two
USBS
the problem with this is I'm always
going to forget
this here we
go it's a dis Drive
uh
okay wait hold on
what we superow wait can I just try
uh try this
again okay I'm going to remove the
Escape and just see if that
helped oh yeah you had to remove the
escaping hell yeah
brother we have got Blinky running
that's so
sick all right so now we got to edit the
code so now we want to make this
the
delay
um wait but wait why isn't rust analyzer
giving me
anything why did rust analyzer
fail wait what if I just open up only
this folder
hopefully rust analyzer will
succeed okay so soon we can get this
thing wired
up and then later I'm going to do some
CAD I need to design this
thing okay
oh they have a midi example
dude my bit rate is literally like
2,000 it's just my shitty
computer oh it's so nice with the with
the uh
we need that
backlight oh there we go all
right
cool okay so now we want it to Blink
faster and now we can just
run okay so it should blink twice as
fast
now
what oh wait do I have to
um is this really how I have to cycle it
I have to do this and then
this every time dude that's brutal
because then you have
to okay but it is blinking faster
now so that's
good so so now we want to okay now we
want to wire this thing up so now I got
to show off a little
bit we're going we're going to test this
out this is this is going to be at
first so how do we want to do
this bring this
down all we're doing is soldering some
header
sign oh
crap okay
oh wait
turn on our soldering iron get our
solder this trash
away
this dude I knew spending some time to
optimize the setup was like a good move
this is so good
okay he yeah
y maybe I can just do it with one
it'll be good enough okay now we can
just pull this down
on I need a um
I think it's probably made out of
plastic but
whatever cool that's it that's all we
had to
do now just inspect
whatever it's
fine now on the
breadboard so first off we can to take
this back up
here hey that worked out pretty well
okay so
um let me look up how to um
let me look up how to do this
uh why is it called time of flight
sensor oh time of flight bro am I
stupid holy [__] it's the time of flight
literally that's what it is
is it
St or is it
populo oh no it is okay this is the
chip where's the data
sheet oh CAD
wow
okay so for now we don't really need uh
to uh show the wiring I do want an
overhead cam that I can switch to like a
nice high quality
one if any Rich viewers want to [__]
help me out with that appreciate it
class one laser
device single reflowable component no
additional Optics single power supply I
squ seat
interface the v53 l x is a time of light
laser ranging module housed in the
smallest package on the market to today
for
okay what's the difference between a
time of flight and a and a
liar what's the difference between a
time of flight sensor and liar
oh this sh shoots out
light can I I want to yeah I want to
read this cuz I want to see what the
schematic is the block diagram
I'm going to get some more
coffee no
never
e
e e
okay
single Photon Avalanche
di what is i squar c can I just watch a
video on I squared C
wait I actually like Great Scott so much
great Scott is so
good if you ever implemented A R complex
I with many functions like telling you
the exact dat in time expanding your iio
outputs with 16 12bit pwm pins or
receiving your favorite FM radio station
in your project then you might be
familiar with i squar c also known as
two wire inter face it is a popular
communication protocol that allows one
or more Master devices in this case notu
Nano to talk to up to 112 slave devices
to either tell them what to do or to
receive data from them which they
acquired so in this video I will tell
you the basics of the synchronous serial
bus and present you a practical example
with an aino and the tea 5767 FM radio
IC let's get started
I see to the master device I first L to
create a small breakout board for that I
simply scored in SN the stri board s a
five pin mail header onto its short
sides interrupted the car traces in the
middle fixed the IC on the board with
hot glue and finally connected the mail
header with the pins through silver
copper wire then I connected ground 5
Vols the antenna and the audio output to
my headphones according to my small
schematic the two ice CR C pins SDA AK
seral data connects to P4 of the alino
and a AKA serial clock connects to pin
A5 the last remaining components are two
10 kilohm resistors which act as a
pull-up resistor for the two ice cred SE
lines this is necessary because the
devices have an open collector
configuration which means they can only
connect the clock and Signal line to
ground but since we need two stable
voltage states to define the two binary
states of a bits the resistors pull the
lines up to 5 volts after powering up
the circuits it was obvious that the
audio outputs would deliver nothing
useful because the correct code is still
missing the most important resource of
information when when it comes to I
sarec devices or generally every IC is
the data sheet there we can find what
kind of bits or high low States we have
to send in order to tune in a certain
frequency mute the audio or choose the
correct region so it's definitely a good
idea to print out those pages firstly we
need to send a start condition which
means the serial data folds while the
clock stays high but don't worry the
wire library of the uino does this
automatically when a transmission begins
then we need to send the address which
is usually a fixed 7bit value which is
always mentioned in the data sheet
afterwards follows the RW bits which is
zero if you want to write to the slave
or one if you want to read from the
slave once again the library handles
this on its own depending on whether you
choose begin transmission or request
from an acknowledge bit is the next
which is sent out by the slave to let
the master know that it is ready for the
next bite AKA eight bits of data and
here starts the fun part since we need
to send our five data bites which
actually tell the slave what to do it is
pretty easy to choose most of the bits
correctly by studying the data sheet but
the first and second bites are a bit
special there we need to define the PLL
value which directly defines the
frequency we want to tune in according
to this given formula as an example I
will use 95.6 MHz and get a decimal
value of
11,697 after the calculation this can be
converted to Binary year with an online
calculator or by hand but we could also
compress it into a hexadecimal value
which is more common than writing a long
binary codes again an online calculator
or small Hands-On calculation delivers
us the necessary value we need for bite
one and two and while I was at it I also
converted the rest of the binary values
into
hexadecimal hello and welcome to this
presentation understanding I squ C this
presentation will provide you with a
brief technical
overview I forget what I
used I forget what I Ed icord C for but
uh
I'm pretty sure it's the magnetic
encoder but I didn't do a pull-up
resistor
thing of the iqu C serial protocol and
how it's used to transfer digital
information the inter-integrated circuit
protocol commonly called either I C or
i2c was developed in 1982 by Phillips
it's one of of the most common serial
protocols and as the name implies it's
used primarily for short distance data
Communications i squ c is a synchronous
Master Slave type protocol in which both
the master and the slaves can send or
receive data it operates bidirectionally
in half duplex mode and can run at
different clock speeds only two wires
serial clock and serial data are used in
i squ c in the remainder of this
presentation we'll go step by step
through the frame structure and
operation of I squared
seat we'll begin with a basic I squared
seat topology a master is connected to
one or more slave nodes via two shared
lines SDA or serial data and or serial
clock these two lines are each connected
to a voltage VCC or vdd by a single
pull-up resistor we'll explain the role
of these resistors later in this
presentation note the devices can be
added to or removed from the bus at any
location and at any time I squ C nodes
exchange data over the shared bus in the
form of
frames let's take a high level look at i
squ c frames an iqu C Master claims the
bus by means of a so-called start
condition it then sends the address of
the slave that it wishes to to
communicate with as well as an
indication as to whether it wishes to
read data from or write data to the
slave the slave acknowledges its
presence and its Readiness after which
the data is transmitted and acknowledged
the communication is terminated by means
of a stop condition let's now go back
through this Frame and explain each of
these fields in more
detail in i squ c the idle state of both
lines SDA and is high the start
condition occurs when a node first pulls
SDA low and then pulls SC low pulling
these lines down in this order is used
to claim the bus and the node that that
claims the bus is now the master this
procedure prevents other nodes from
taking control of the bus and thereby
reduces the risk of contention that is
two nodes trying to claim or use the bus
at the same time once a noce sees the
bus that node also begins sending the
clock signal that's used by both the
master and the
slave immediately following the star
condition is a slave address which is
used to specify which node the master
wants to communicate with each node on
an I squ se bus must have a unique fixed
address these are normally seven bits
long I think I think it's that the I
C or the PCB itself has the pullup
resistors I'm pretty sure that's why I
didn't need to do
it with the most significant bit first
iqu C also supports 10bit addresses but
these are
uncommon addresses may be hard-coded for
each device but in many cases the
address is partially configurable using
external address lines or jumpers for
example addresses for this board can be
partially configured using three Jumpers
in order to configure this address both
A2 and a z would be jumpered and A1
would be left open
at this point it would be a good idea to
pause for a moment to talk about the
timing relationship between the data and
clock lines in i s c in this diagram we
can see that SDA does not changed
between the rising and the falling edges
of the clock signal data is always read
during the middle of the clock pulse
expressed another way we can say that
during data transmission SDA only
transitions when the clock is low this
is necessary
because an SDA transition when the clock
is high would indicate the start or stop
conditions immediately following the
slave address is the read write bit this
bit is set by the master to indicate if
it wants to perform a read or a write
operation if set to zero this means that
the master wants to write data to the
slave and if set to one it indicates the
master wants to read data from the slave
recall that the standard slave address
in i squ c is seven bits long and in
many cases the read write bit is decoded
or interpreted as part of the address
bite the acknowledge or act bit is sent
by the receiver each time a bite of data
is received zero is an acknowledgement
and one is a negative acknowledgement or
a knack recall that the ice squ C bus is
idle high so if the receiver doesn't
actively respond by pulling the line low
this will be interpreted as a knack
every slave address or data bite is
followed by an AC bit an AC bit
following a data bite is sent by the
receiver to confirm correct by an AC bit
as a knack every slave address or data
bite is followed by an AC bit an AC bit
following a data bite is sent by the
receiver to confirm correct reception of
the data an act following a slave
address is sent by the address slave to
indicate that it's both present on the
bus and that it's ready to read or write
data depending on the state of the
proceeding readwrite
bit the address act bit is followed by
the data bite which is the actual
information being transferred between
the master and the slave although this
is often the contents of a memory
address or register in the slave device
this may be an address location itself
we'll talk about this more on the next
slide data
is okay I think we're ready Let's
uh um
okay wait wait but I want to know about
this
PCB e
the ears
okay whatever um all
right so
uh just do the wiring I guess I don't
know what the wiring is supposed to be
I don't know what the address is
either uh how do you find all of the
devices and their
addresses what is it called is that what
it is
oh I could just use different buses bro
that's what you
do you just use different buses if you
have a if you have a if you have a
conflict you just use um okay wait so
let's
um so let's reflash this thing
awesome
um dude how do
okay when I contrl F and then type
something that doesn't exist on the page
Windows makes this annoying sound how do
I just disable that sound entirely I
know I did it before on my laptop but
now I need to do it on my desktop
this so freaking annoying
oh baby that's so much nicer I can't
stand that sound it's literally the
worst song in the
world okay whatever I forget um oh [__]
so bad at managing the stream bro
okay uh okay so it's
flashed oh wait
okay so we just blinked
it
now okay wait now we want to connect
it okay so
um yeah I wish uh
I wish we had a better way to do this
but um we
don't
okay
clock wait I'm going to disconnect it
[Music]
okay clock data
ground
okay VN ground SEO SDA
is there like an
Arduino there's probably an Arduino
library for this
thing wait is that written by palulu oh
wow that's
sick dude I should buy a
uh I should buy a Pico or a Arduino Nano
[Music]
okay okay
the fifth one
[Music]
down all right so we should be all
hooked up here except for the ground we
don't have another ground so we need
to
that no that's not pin four that's pin
three
[Music]
okay dude this thing has got to stop
doxing it's so insane literally my OS
[Music]
w
okay
[Music]
cool
okay um all right wait so now we're
ready so let's plug this thing in
oh wait but yeah that's just cuz these
are
wrong the clock is on 15 and the pin is
on
[Music]
14 dude what
what is this zero
for
okay what is that first argument for
where's the
Constructor ID
h
oh what wait where does it say that is
that on the pin
out oh yeah there you go oh I didn't
know that
wait oh I didn't know that all right
well you learn something new every day
okay so cool so now how do we do it
let's read the data sheet and be like
real Engineers about
this so this in the table of contents oh
there's no table of
content control inter it's probably
under the control
interface
okay Ox 52
really
oh my [__] god
you really have to write all that
code dude I freaking love these embedded
guys man they're so
sick so almost certainly what I got oh
no for
50 mm well that's that's honestly fine
for us we're not we don't need it to be
that much
bigger but it said that it would go 2
MERS it said it was going to go two M I
don't know about that
man hey robot Akers how you doing hope
you're having a good day so far so do
you want to know how to get the VL let
me get this words right VL 53 LX Tim
flight Laser Rangefinder working with
micropython and the Rasberry P Pico
that's a bit of mouthful isn't it so
there's not very much information about
this around the web so I thought I would
do a video on it soon as we've used this
in the SM mini robots so I've got a lot
to share with you today um and maybe
another robot I found as well another
small robot so let's di straight in my
name is Kevin Mia come with me as we
build robots bring them to life with
code bring them to life with code and
have a whole Lo of fun along the way
okay so let's get over to Keynote I'm
just going to turn down Paul says that's
a bit of a mou you're not kidding that's
the thing with techy content is a bit
like that so um raspby pie Pico um it's
a bit different than so micro python
that's on rasb P Pico is a little bit
different than the vanilla microp Python
and also the circuit python made fruit
and one of the things I found a bit of
an issue was this little range find this
blue chip that's on the screen at the
moment getting that to work with p is a
bit of a bind so there's a Code out
there that some's written and there's
code out there for the uino there isn't
anything that works perfectly out of the
box with r p Pico so there is now
because I've made it so let's go to the
the next slide and I can talk all about
this okay so session goals today we want
to get this thing working get the V3 l z
exp working with p and SMI which is Rob
it's just ding on me there it's going to
be like actually kind of tricky to get
this working in Rust but
I I'm waiting on this freaking solenoid
I need to go to Home Depot get some wood
I design this stand for the canvases
that's an exciting stream that's going
to come up actually but
um right now I'm kind of just down to
lock
in I designed um so we're to understand
what this board is all about create some
Library code for micro python you can
just grab mine from Hop I'll share
that's probably L of people come in for
this video for in future when they're
Googling this um some and yeah create
some code to measur distance so it's
probably intermediate to Advanced I
would say depends on how you use if you
just use the code then it's probably to
intermediate if you want do anything
more than that tin with it it's probably
intermediate to expert I would say so
this is for use in the SM mini um but
you can also use it in lots of other
places too these things are ridiculously
cheap um if you go to somewhere like
AliExpress you can pick up for about a
pound something like that um your
mileage may vary depending on which
model you buy Way by from where you are
in the world and what the shipping looks
like so AliExpress you know could be 60
days for that um so this is in place of
a much larger range finder if I just
look over here so this is a regular Spar
robot with these kinds of range finders
on the top this thing is obviously a bit
bigger than a little SM robot if we have
that stuck on the front I mean it's it's
every way about this larger so this
little thing has have something a bit
smaller than one of these things so
that's what we're going for something
that can measure distance so this is
time flight sensor what is it how does
it work what the specifications because
most people love that kind of stuff
what's the cost way you can buy it from
and um how do we get it to work with
micropython and the rco so what is it
spoiler it's a laser it's a laser power
dist sensor so it's a tiny little board
that's designed accurately measuring
distance um it uses the ice we SE BS
protocol for communication if you don't
know what that is then you probably want
to BU in that's how it pop to the board
and it works kind of similar to how
these these work but instead of using
ultrasound it uses light uses invisible
laser light almost like magic um and
it's available from your usual
electronic suppliers all good suppliers
and the actual chip itself is like about
I would say it's smaller than grain of
rice it is ridiculously small how they
laser in that I don't know so how does
it work so it uses something called time
of flight which is very similar like I
said to the the principle how the
ultrasound works so you remember on
these ultrasonic things one of these is
essentially like a loud speaker you fir
our sound as high that we can hear this
will fire out sound when that hits an
object it bounces off that and then
comes back to the other sensor which is
microphone so loud speaker microphone
with this it works in the same way
instead of it being loud speaker it's a
laser being light and lasers are very um
tight bandwidths of light so unlike you
know light here unlike a regular kind of
light um these
time taken it's bit like when you a kid
and you count you know you see some
lightning Flash and then you count how
many seconds between you know the
Thunder reaching you when the light
flashed that kind of measurement is how
this works so the time of light is how
long does it take for those phot tons of
light to bounce off the object and come
back I always thought that light was
kind of instantaneous and it wasn't
something
you so how did I go about
finding is what I remember so how did I
go about finding the
code I remember so how did I go about
finding the code for this so someone
have very kindly written some libraries
in the past um however they only worked
for very old version of micropython and
micropython is a scale down version of
python and sometimes when when new
versions come out they'll try and cut it
back even further to try and maximize
the amount of ram that this chip has got
available because you put loads of stuff
in the libraries and people don't use it
then it just takes load of space and
means the programs don't run properly
and with things like a Pico you know
there's not very much RAM on there
something like 156 kiloby of ram it's
tiny it's got storage for files to store
The Source Code but the ACT working Ram
is very small so any libr and things
that we use we have to be really
efficient on and that means it can be
really difficult to get somebody else's
code working on your um version of the
micro python so I believe a have got got
this working fine with circuit python
I'm not using circuit python I always
get this working with a vanilla out the
box rry P call Mic python so how did I
do this I Google stuff I looked to see
what the people's code is like one of
the problems with this is it's very very
technical so there's lots of complicated
maths involved um I didn't have to learn
all that and learn how that chip works
and how you communicate with that chip
and the sequence of things and the
timings all that kind of stuff I just
wanted to grab some else's code maybe
Tinker out with bit and then make it
work with my code so that's what I did
spent a bit of time after work just
making this code work with with some
test code I've written um so this is
what I like to do as my Approach code
try it out troubleshoot the errors that
come through make it better and then
share it back with everyone because
sorry if you just get this thing working
and then don't share it when you're
using the people's code that's they
given to the World free so the library
itself you can grab my code from gi.com
v53 LX l0x is it lx0 let me double check
that I don't give you the wrong address
before um it' be terrible if I give you
the wrong address for that lx0 okay
that's that's theual name of the library
stat that's correct that's fine we'll go
with that um what we need to do is we
need to upload that file to the
Raspberry p Pico um I'll show you how we
can do that too I i' had to do that a
few so I'm actually not using the
standard Rasberry p p I'm using a poni
version of the Pico that's called the
tiny 2040 so I'll show you that on the
overhead shot it's just this little chip
just here it's a tiny version of the
Pico you can see the Pico by comparison
next to it shot there it's got LED and
two buttons and it's got a couple bio
pins on the back and the actual Pico
chck is the back as well just underneath
can't quite see on the camera trust me
there just got this W up there that's
the little range finder itself and um we
can we can play with that in a second or
so so that's what we to do it is indeed
demo time so let's get over to um let's
try this view see if I can get this to
work so if I go over to the code there
we go so at the moment um I'll just turn
off that coffee thing for a second there
we go you can see that on the screen
there flickering away that's because
it's taking lot of measurements you can
see there it's it's measuring distances
so let's have a look at code itself and
then we can come back to this and see
how this is actually working so if I
come over here um so I've got two files
in this Library so this is the um the
GitHub library that I created show you
that there's just three files in a read
file um which is just some text about
the um what this is all about so there
is this the time FL sensor in mroy
specifically for the r Pico it's heav
based on the code from UC eats and
that's his um UC eats giop and I've some
tweaks and made it with limitations of
so things to know um when I was testing
this out I found it was about 5 C
exactly 5 centimet out so I've just
taken five centimeters off all the read
come back it seems working fine so bit
of a hack but hey um and I also
simplified the results so you had to do
this like start take a reading and then
stop I thought why why do those three
lines let's just have something it's
called ping and it can do all that for
us and MERS so
happy oh he he he said it was 5 cm off
out is a weird
whatever bring so that's the file the
next one then is the the massive Library
itself so I can see what's happened here
theyve gone to the manufacturers um site
so there four things that brings in
there brings in a constant class it's a
bit Overkill to be honest there's no
need to do that they could just pass
those values in there um as values you
have to say it's a constant beforehand I
don't know why they've done that um
python doesn't have the concept of a
constant which is weird but the
convention is that you provide the the
name of the variable in upper case and
you just pass it value and you never
change it that's the idea so it brings
in UST struct which is um kind of
structure for managing bites sequences
of bites we bring in U time which is a
micropython version of the time library
and we also bring in the time I don't I
don't think we actually use that in fact
it says that time is not accessed so we
probably just comment that now actually
I orig have time in there time and U
time are basically the same thing time
is just link to U time U time is that
minimized version of the time Library so
then we've got a whole load of constants
now e
did I just run this I can't listen to
this guy talk
forever tough test okay so wait do I
just upload it
okay so just clone this
thing uh okay
dude what oh my God bro I'm so sick of
this
[__] um um we're just going to remove
this from our path somehow Windows
during an update was like you know what
we're just going to shove this annoying
version of python onto your machine and
put it on your path good luck fellas
yeah it's like oh
God they think they could just do
whatever they want
they think they could just do whatever
they
want but they can't bro they can't stop
me they stop the [__]
guy yeah dude okay that's so annoying
oh wait uh Das
V oh how do you do which
bro wait oh wait did we apply
it oh nice get oh no that's not
right oh but you know what but that is
the right
python
okay all right so let's uh let's do this
thing
again
no should I delete the other thing from
it
that
wait Windows apps python I think this is
I think I went the like Microsoft Store
version of
python what is the recommended way to do
this
is Windows apps on my
um okay
wait please say nothing
bro what the wait is this right I feel
like this might have been different than
before no so
wait oh is it on my user
path wait can we let's open up vs
code
uh here we go okay wait which one is
this
one that's the one I want this is this
one
sucks so both of these are fine so we
just need to
[Music]
remove this Windows app thing app data
local
Microsoft oh my
god oh control Z doesn't work that's
fantastic
please tell me that
works Windows apps I don't even
understand but we're just going to
delete it
because wait but we can't we probably
can't delete
it how do I make that my default
that's the one I
want I probably can't just delete that
but okay wait so if we do
python or
uh oh wait hold
on D dealing with paths I I maintain
that dealing with paths is the worst
part about programming there's literally
nothing worse than just dealing with
file names all
day holy [__] I'm so mad okay wait what
if we just add the specific python one
that we
want so it's
um we're going to add this to our
environment right
PA
new I'm going to close
this remains to be seen if that's
right all
right oh okay cool finally
dude finally finally finally so
um I can't believe they did that they
just like mess everyone
up all right so uh nice all right
okay
presumably if you just upload something
all right wait let's uh let's just try
this we're just going to do a little
thing so first off I hate
this
uh
um yeah we can put it in here I don't
really care oh wait actually I don't
want to put it in here because I I have
merge complex okay I'll be back I have
e
e e
okay so now we
have I saw you working on programming
that's pretty cool bro these art by yo
why why are the like AI trying to sell
art why aren't they just more Norm
normal I don't get it
um all right so what I want to do is
just demonstrate basically
how micropython does
things
um okay
so in here we're going to do
a
uh okay so in here we're going to define
function and all it's going to do is
print food that's
fine and now we're going to have
um now we're going
to um
I'm pretty sure it's com
10 and it's just
LS okay so what we just did is we
upload uh oh for
I don't want to [__] this
up oh [__] okay wait that's actually
fine
okay so now I want to start the uh
okay so
um okay so basically what we want to do
now okay sick so now I should say be
able to say import Funk Funk
do so it's just like a normal python
module
so we don't really have to do all this
weird
stuff
um so yeah so
okay now this is the part that basically
when we run this on Rust we are going to
have to do our
cell and there's a ton a ton of these
constants and how to calibrate this and
control this little chip
okay what happens in the
read it sends all these btes but why
aren't these btes constants
wait
so what what is this function
do oh okay so it just Loops over a list
of
tups and it sets a bunch of
registers okay but like
okay wait let's
take this one for instance is that the
only instance of this wait hold on let
me just open this up in vs
code so presumably all of this is
described
in
um um did I close
it in
this for
okay so then I don't understand why
there's literally so many of
these all right can we just try it let's
just
um what do you call it you call it boot
or something you call it
main why don't we just click run why
don't we do
this wait can we wait no we probably
can't do
this yet because first we need
to what has it
open I think you have to disable this
okay so
um and now we want to upload
oh wait but um we do need to change this
to be um
e
yo yo what's up what's
up
okay so okay so I was able to get um
I was able to get blink running with the
Pico examples or with
rust that was nice but the
issue
was um there was uh well the the the
main issue is that now I want to
interface with this sensor this time of
flight ranging sensor but the problem
with this ranging sensor is that you
sort of need it's it's communicated with
over I squ C and so there's a specific
data thing you have to set all these
registers and do all sorts of stuff and
so I
found
um this which is B which is uh which is
a a micro python
version uh and then I also found the uh
Arduino
version and this is probably and this is
actually maintained by like a company
that does this so this is probably the
most I mean it has Way by far the most
stars so our goal is first get it
working in
um no I I really want to do a because in
know like Loops in micro python are
still slow it's still interpreted so I
would love to see if rust is faster
because and there's a reason why I
actually want it to be
fast
um when I was doing the RPM detection on
the uh brush Motors I was capping out at
like 30% throttle and my Motors are Fort
uh
KV
brushless KV is a way to describe the
relationship between the voltage and the
rotation speed so I have 1450 KV 12vt
Motors so if you do 1450 * 12 the
maximum I can um RPM that I should be
able to get is this
high but for some reason I I just
couldn't sample fast enough to get a
reliable
reading okay so we let's get this thing
going
um no but honestly ampy dude it's so
it's so easy to just work with this so
now we want to um
we just want to run
this okay wait so we're
getting some noisy
readings now if I put my hand here
oh my God that's so sick okay so we got
this
Sensor 2
m seems like it's more like half a meter
and it's really noisy
but if you're less than a
centimeter or 10
cm works pretty
good that's sick so we're going to be
able to use
this
um but if you look at this code it's
pretty freaking
random um
I don't think so
dude because it's a
laser it's a class one
laser okay it's a class one laser I'm
fine
bro okay but I don't I don't understand
this code at all like we're starting off
the bat with like 20 constants
undocumented obviously
do they have do they even have
a yeah it's retinal damage I'm just not
going to look straight at it
um I wanted to see if 's an i squ c
example in this thing oh wait actually I
didn't want to open this I wanted to
uh this
one uh oh yeah here we
go
for e
oh that's pretty
sweet she got all of the features of the
thing
these Hardware abstraction layers are
really
interesting for
this is going to be
difficult I don't know because the thing
is reading this data sheet doesn't even
really help me
oh here's the schematic that I was
looking for so wait do they have these
pull-up
resistors or am I supposed to do this
presumably it's on the
PCB oh wait no I don't know wait can I
see the pin
out okay so this is the
pinout e
here we go let's read
this
okay chose the system level functional
description the host customer
application controls using the uh the
device using an a API the API exposes to
the customer application a set of high
level functions that control that allow
control of the sensor in the firmware
functions include initialization
calibration ranging start and stop
choice of accuracy and choice of ranging
mode the API is a turnkey solution it
consists of a set of C functions oh
interesting which enables fast
development of end user applications
without the complication of direct
multiple register access the API is
structured in a way that it can be
compiled on any kind of platform wait oh
maybe maybe you know this ol can I on
something with no no stood can I
um can I include C functions I probably
can because that would that would be the
best is if I could just have unsafe Co
code in uh
no the API package allows the user to
fully benefit
API user manual I don't think that this
is in this
yeah I mean what I don't
know
uh yeah I I'll look but I'm
pretty sure that uh we're not going to
find anything
considering the micropython one only has
Stars oh wow they even provide Reflow
method recommendation that's pretty
cool field of
view okay it's probably in oh it's in
this
this is the
API
yeah okay so this is actually the uh the
real now where do you get the code
there's probably a yeah can I see the
quick
start oh my god dude you're freaking
Legend
what the
hell dude what the I'm that's so
surprising to me oh my God people are so
goated and of course it's the one that
has the most maintenance on
it oh my go dude ol you're you're the
[__] man ol oh my God that's so cool
that they have
this making rust fly
of course this guy's got some freaking
uh what is that the K
combinator I'm pretty sure that's the K
combinator
wait I'm pretty sure it's the K
combinant yeah of course dude these guys
are so sick
pop the
rust holy [__]
man so so does it wrap the C code let's
see
yeah um hold on I'll be right back I'll
be right
back
e
e e
okay all right so the question
is how do we get that Library
to work
chocolate load
r d That's so
silly
okay yeah this is an
es um
he used five pins I don't know what the
gpio pin is
for okay that's the one that I
have or
wait that's the one that I have
okay so the question is yeah how does
this all work
together
um these are
features I don't even know what features
are in Russ to be
honest cuz these are not dependency
features these are like
rust
features
then okay so here's the dependency on
the uh
sensor and then these are
all these are all basically
um interfacing with the uh
microcontroller I don't know what this
is what an fcz
file oh it's
[Music]
pring
okay
um okay
uh right
okay then there's
a okay so that's uh that's all that's
all good then
this we just change this from ESP flash
to uh what is it elf to or no wait hold
on which is the one that worked the one
that worked
was
um this and in
here we didn't change this oh no okay
fair enough yeah so we we're using elf
to
uf2 which
um what's an elf file again L file is a
binary
and what's a uf2 a uf2
f oh interesting
okay cool cool cool
okay so some of this stuff is starting
to make sense
basically let's go back to the oh it's
on GitHub and it's this okay so now
let's look at the actual main okay so
first
off oh my
God okay this seems pretty nice
so the question is if we compare what
this looks like to not what that looks
like but what
um oh wait
uh so here
basically the question is in
the library here they say use how
i2c wait let me clone this so I can get
some uh debug
symbols oh [__]
[Music]
[__] Okay so what we want to
know
really this where does this get used us
so is this a trait presumably this is a
trait okay sweet so it is a
trait and it just implements yeah read
write
write read
transaction
great so presumably
um Embassy RP so see where does the okay
let's look at the i squ c blocking
example embedded Hal
one is that different
it might be
different
um okay let's look at the example then
of not this but
of chocolate lovers
[Music]
1,000
KZ well that's pretty
fast I haven't seen anything that high
okay oh yeah so wait oh I shouldn't have
closed that window
okay so I think the best thing that we
should start out by doing is the scam
so this uses that thing but what we want
is
um what what what is
that oh that's
this okay
okay so wait what was the scan code
[Music]
dude why does it continually run cargo
cheack I literally just indexed this
[__]
why
not why not so wait
Embassy is it all implemented in here so
I i2c is implemented in here
I feel like Hal and Embassy hell are two
different things and we might not be
able to get this thing to
work that's nice
wait can we just I want to verify so
we're going to go to micro
python
GitHub and we are going to try to
find is it in
lib no it's probably not in lib
wait can we just go to the
documentation and can we go view page
Source but no that's
[__] wait why don't we just clone it
and then look for class i2c
I just want to see if scan the way scan
Works in micropython is literally just
by looping over all the addresses and
then trying to write empty whatever an
empty
bite okay so um code micro python now we
are going to search for oh wait how we
have to find where the actual because
the thing is when you search it doesn't
sort it in a reasonable
way so this is
not you would kind of expect it to be in
lib
I'm gonna ask
J P pie
ports is in
ports I can see
that there we go wait but this is
um okay I don't know how cpython work or
what is it called C is it called C
python oh
okay so whatever I'm going to give up on
finding where that is but I I'm guessing
that's how it works let's just go here
copy this go back to
this paste this in and now we should be
able to I don't think I have I might
have to register this somewhere because
cargo is kind of
annoying dude the the re indexing of
this thing is
crazy for
okay all right
uh
Adder for mutable
ref what
wait can we just
copy let's just copy
this I don't know what
changed oh it didn't
change okay wait I I just don't want to
function I just don't give a [__]
I think I need to do
this yes so we just needed to import
that trade I
guess let me try it one more
time dude this indexing is crazy slow
unable defend mounted P I
believe that is
because first off what is going on
here okay I believe that's because it's
already okay
it didn't print anything
though wait how do I print in Blinky
there was no
printing let me let me
um I think I have to do this every time
I'm going to run this over
[Music]
here it doesn't send it to standard app
I don't know where it sends it
where the hell does it print
it that's
annoying what does the info do it should
send it to standard
out uh I okay let's do I'm running this
from within vs
code uh how it intended so
I remember the blink example ran but all
of the calls to info the
macro um they aren't printing to my
standard out my vs code connected
terminal how do I print because uh none
it didn't run in it didn't show anything
but it did run and it did uh flash
correctly it seems
what what is the point of that why can't
you just
print e
it
this hey there welcome back to the
channel in today's video we are going to
to work with s swd serial wire debug
protocol this protocol is available only
on arm architectures and it allows us to
know what the microcontroller is
currently doing by sending the log
messages from the board to our host so
let's begin in the previous videos I
said that turning on the LED is a Hello
World equivalent in the world but what
if we want the microcontroller to print
something out do we have to communicate
with the external World using LEDs and
mor code absolutely not there is a
possibility ility to set up a
communication between our development
board and the host using semih hosting
semi hosting is a mechanism that lets
embedded devices in essence our board do
IO communication with the host in Ence
our laptop this sort of communication is
mainly used for logging messages from
the board to the host having the print
debugger available through the SD link
it means we have all the necessary
connections already set up which is a
great advantage of the nucle and
Discovery boards especially when we are
learning how to use protocols and we are
not that Savvy with electronics reading
schematics is a great skill to have
building your own board is the next
level and I won't be focusing on it for
now so let
can we just look at
uh the
um
okay
e e
is
oh
[Music]
for
I wonder if there's a way to do that
without having to uh
freaking
e
e e
there's no search
right wait what the hell
oh that's confusing you're going to have
two
Loops that I mean that's pretty sick I
mean it's nice that they have that
example because this shows the state
machine thing or whatever the the hell
they're talking about
the info is not working for
[Music]
me watch it show up with that annoying
freaking thing look at this shows up
with this stupid thing every
time so goddamn annoying
[Music]
oh okay
what is rtt
wait how do I add it to the
examples wait why don't I just start a
new
uh okay okay so what we're going to do
is I don't know if we need we're going
to just first we're going to just try
this and make a oh wait what we should
have done actually
okay then
this I'm pretty sure we're going to need
so we're going to copy
this we're going to copy do we need to
copy all of this I don't know about that
I think we just want to depend
on the stuff that we care about which is
all of
these so first off I'm going to copy
this into
main then do we need assets probably
not but I probably do need
this so we have the build RS we have the
okay we're almost
ready
e e
okay God I hate that I'm inside right
now but I just want to get this
working
um so we should be able to see what went
wrong here
oh wait we just have to refresh
it
uh okay now we just need to add all of
these
I don't know why that doesn't work
because this is
installed oh I guess
not okay great so now we just need to
add
are there features Maybe
let's
see it's interesting because
in oh no yeah okay all right
so yeah so this is just literally
examples so
okay so we do need all of these
features oh [__]
and then embedded
how oh wait why do they do
that why do you why why do you Alias it
like
that okay what else do we need de
format we need this
Embassy embedded hell is that
different oh man I'm dropping frames
bro
okay all right wait let's see where
we're at
Embassy RP does not have these
features
hello okay wait how do you oh wait I
think it's just C
features uh
is it cargo feature or cargo features I
think it's this one actually
wait what the
[__] I think it's not this wait
I'm pretty sure it's not I'm to manage
dependence I'm pretty sure what it is is
Cargo
features
bro wait wait didn't we just have that
search thing
oh my [__] God bro what the
hell
isn't isn't there an install sub command
of cargo that lets me list the features
of a
crate list the features of a
crate so what if I just
[__] Jesus
this is bothering me bro okay then why
did why did I even bro I thought that
there was something that actually worked
I thought there was something that
worked okay I think that this is just
old
okay what wait the
executive
e e
okay we just wait now
okay I don't really get the difference
between all these H crates
oh yeah wait um
okay embedded how I think I think you
just call it embedded how
right Embassy time do I add this let's
see
Embassy time
okay and then in
here what is it it's D format
and deat Tim stamp up time
okay what else do we have here that
we're
missing what is that do do I even need
that can I read what this guy was saying
what is
soat I feel like I'm doing this wrong
what is bsp
we need to wait
what wait hold on
spawner I feel like it's
a I think we need this yeah we need this
I don't think we have
this I think we could just copy this and
delete the freaking uh path
argument um
wait no we have this thing
wait C Let's do let's add cortex
oh wait do we
wait bro I'm so confused oh wait we just
need to add this
dependency notes
we are getting
close perfect dude we are getting so
close to
this I wish it wouldn't open a [__] I
probably have a million of these open
right
now okay so wait so it needs to do this
uart thing is that what he's saying
that's not helpful
oh yeah this is like one level
down but I don't understand how you
uh how you connect to this thing or
whatever for
okay hold
on okay tell me what I need to do if I
just just want to log over the micro USB
cable that connects my Raspberry Pi and
my
computer I just want to see it in the
terminal the simplest way
yeah has no idea what the [__] it's
doing wait what
okay first off let's let's do blink so
let's get
Blinky oh wait where is
that wait
um how do they set that
up it's said probably in the cargo.
where it
says
whatever include bites
uh we we we uh we
uh what was
it is it in this okay so wa in wifi
Blinky include bites
firmware this and this and this we'll
just put it
in
here why is this all grayed out
let's see if this
works okay perfect
oh yeah
and we definitely need to add D format
to all these even though I have no idea
what it
does it's so annoying to do
this wait had it
okay no wait
no oh
wait what was it okay
uh it's probably some it's probably some
random
thing probably this
I'm just guessing and I'm getting
getting it
right um
okay so we're successfully blinking and
we should just blink for forever
now the question is where the hell do we
get
this where the hell do we get the uh
okay oh yeah so I wanted to test if this
works what
method to
work will this be able to go just over
the USB or do I need one of those weird
debug things all I have is the Pico I
don't have anything else
m
what
oh wait I do this then I run my
what is that wait I know I I should have
this
deploy oh is that what's in my cargo
toml oh
yeah
e
e e
okay let's see
uh do I have that in panic probe
yeah cortex
M
cortex I honestly have no idea just
adding random
dependencies uh
bro dude I don't understand what I need
to to
do ises this my no
Mouse is so [__]
annoying connect to cereal after deploy
what does that
mean oh this bothers me so much
how do you
print wait can can I just watch that
video not this well okay let's get back
to the main one how can we ask the
microcontroller to print out something
on our screen the discovery book
proposes to use IPM instrumentation TR
Microsoft we briefly discussed this
protocol in one of the previous videos
about H crates but we are not going to
be using itpm today but serial wire debu
protocol so let's quick
is this all I showed
up I developer I work
at um I of the meup as I already said I
guess uh but usually it is too expensive
to AFF right um
a famous piece of Polish L literature so
yeah um but how
done okay so I
small
PR um that that does this um main
function right we say hello and
then and
you if you how works it just H things
this like T thousand I actually a more
than so um how Works let's see
Works yes
so to my computer and it
so I think
what's
happening is it comes back to this
um elf to uf2 versus probars
thing he didn't show us how how the
wiring is set up
this is cool because it is
slow it's slow as hell
bro okay so elf to
uf2 dasd
dollar1 for
I believe that get set
in this
just change to
debug see we get all of that wait is he
using he's using elf
to wait
wait what is
his here we
go e
so wait here's what I'm going to do
I'm going to do uh so instead of
this I'm going to make another one just
hello world Loop or let's just go
that and then we're going
to kill all of this all
this okay so uh we don't even need this
so but what we want to do is we want to
edit this thing to be this Runner now we
want to pipe it so that it works
like like
this which is
um we should be able to do this
so cat
this okay
I found this example that uses D format
seral uh no serial with an
S oh my
God can you explain this and then also
make it work for Powershell
so this is so we could just write the
script so what is the
serial connect to serial after
deploy okay L2 U of2 oh whatever
okay
what are you supposed to call it PS1
dude that's dude Microsoft is so silly
okay so now we want to
change this to
be Flash and run wait Flash and log
right
is that
it his was uh his
was this and then cat that so wait why
don't we just
try Dash relase D bin hello
world wait
what wait what oh that's because of this
ridiculous
nonsense I hate these profiles
okay so program not
found that
means what exactly that means that this
was not found let me just copy the whole
path
in just whatever oh my God
bro Windows development bro Windows
development
okay access is
denied that's presumably cuz it's open
already so I'm going to disconnect the
Pico and we're going to try to flash it
again I'm I'm honestly guessing it's
still going to say access is denied but
a man can
dream I'm guessing it's this get content
thing that's not working oh wait I'm
dumb as
hell wait is is it actually Comm
uh let's see if
it's hopefully it's
not wait it doesn't even see it wait uh
that's cuz we don't know what it will be
so I'm just going to guess nine which is
like some silly ass [__]
no no I I have something
wrong okay if I just manually do
this so in here if we
undo
uh if we just do
what does it take it takes the
executable
presumably so I give
it Target release oh wait no T Target
thumb release hello
world Okay cool so what does the serial
argument actually do let's look at the
documentation of this
thing oh why doesn't that work man
that's so weird
dude I really want to get this to
print all of these guys said they
wait um
uh let's see
is there any explanation of De
forat wait but what what was that thing
called a
debugger yeah oh wait see there's this
whole okay
wait
uh yeah that's a maos thing
dependencies right
so should I go down this road I mean it
seems like the
craziest I really don't want to do that
man e
but since this uses this you can't
actually uh so wait so this is like
totally bogus for me
because well maybe it's not just for
this part of it but like I won't be able
to
use uh
this what was that guy what was his
name I had him on my my
history super powers you'll have to wire
your pigos like
this oh wait okay
wait yeah that's okay wait so is he
going to show me how
to what is flip link
dude flashing oh my
God asshol is using gitlab
USB flash oh probe flash dude this guy's
article is
great error flashing the probe that's
fine
where does she actually run the
code oh my God there's so much to just
uh okay wait where's the code article
Pro per by template presumably he just
ran the template
so this what does this say in
it flip link I don't know what that is
do I need to add
this is that a file in here
no I kind of like how fast gitlab dude
gitlab feels Snappy
if probe else okay what if I just delete
the serial thing do do we think that's
going to do anything let's see what code
does he actually
run now that
is
cringe wait what is this like
pre-processed code dude what the [__]
God if probe
okay and if
okay oh so he's okay so he's only
logging if um if there's a
probe should I really go through this to
try to no let me see what the wiring
is oh I don't want to do that
is there more
I'm just going to comment
dude I don't know how to do
it let's see rust print
printing
um RP
2040 is there just a hello world in this
actually presumably they're able to get
that to work even just with this
wait hold on what is it originally let
me look at the actual source
code uh that's in
Embassy
examples no no no
no wait
am I missing
that just randomly throwing dumb [__] at
the wall
okay hold on rp. cargo Caro
Tel yeah so okay interesting so this is
with that so I'm pretty sure that probe
RS
handles the
um so really the question is with elf2
uf2
printing to terminal elf2
uf2 wait should I add rust to
this for
I'm going to try adding
this just throwing in random
[__] where do you put this okay you just
put this here and we are going to just
uh we're just going to do
this but I don't think it does anything
so release up what is the contents of
release up
okay I think it's time
to relax and not and not get this
printing working
um okay should I just send it oh
[Music]
mine has this little housing on this
thing so if you look at this
wait okay I don't know if I have a
connect actually wait they're right
here none of these are small
enough to fit in this thing it's so
small but basically
um maybe I could just take it off I
don't know I don't really want to do
that
okay wait
um my Raspberry Pi Pico W uh has its
debug pins in a housing but I don't know
what type of uh cable I need it's pretty
small but I I won't be able to solder to
it what do I
um what what kind of connector do I need
to get
2 by five oh s
swd it seems like it's only three pins
though anyways
uh that's what I'm looking for
um you are the two wire two wire Studio
debug in
faces but where do I buy the [__]
connector
I feel like we might
have some of these but I am going to go
on
Amazon o an adapter
[Music]
kit you have to put it together for
yourself
is it male and
female I can't even I don't even know
if I don't know these Loki look too big
this thing is so small
here we go
where my calipers I want to
check
whatever frequently returned item
hilarious
okay I feel like we do have these jst
connectors so I'm going to put a pin in
the I mean eventually I really really
want to be able to
print but
um so I think it's this what the hell is
that though
too bad that I can't just solder
directly to it
um where was that actual
crate so but without printing dude this
is going to be a pan in the book wait
actually hold
on uh
yeah but print line I don't think you
can just print
line so first off
it's insane that that exists dude that's
so wild the r people are just so much
better than everyone
else uh it's proving
ground where was the
uh this is really what you want
um
you whoa they did this six years
ago dude that's
nuts that's crazy man six years ago they
did this
[Music]
did I ever verify that things don't work
if
you uh if you have
this um
um is it called blink why if I
Blinky oh God
where was that thing oh my my whole
stream's going to be [__] for five
minutes
anyways
um e
what is it called
the hell
wait where did I see that actually
because I think in the embassy book is
where oh wait there it
was I
think uh did they have a no
probe oh
yeah e
I mean it's more of a question maybe
it's more of a question for
how uh L to uf2 works but
um I'm still going to ask it on Embassy
I feel like I'm more likely to get a
real response
um okay
um is
it what is what is it
actually what's
different oh yeah
link yeah
what what have I tried that's I guess
maybe a better question is what have I
tried I don't know what I tried I tried
nothing and I gave up immediately and
now it's someone else's problem and
that's how I solve problems in life make
it someone else's
issue
um okay wait what if we try to run this
again wait what happened over
here oh wait yeah no connected prob
profound I'm able to get the Wi-Fi
Blinky example to the uh
uh examples RP what is the path to this
thing examples RP C spin C spin WiFi
Blinky
RS
in.
cargo config
that my issue I can't get seem to
uh any is it
possible
[Music]
to uh to log information to my terminal
without a deep plug
probe I'm new to embedded
programing thank you
um um where's my repo let me go to
my
uh my code is here with
a
um when I do a cargo run D release D bin
Hello
World um I can see that
the Pico is getting
flashed let's see oh wait and let's make
sure that
this
okay um
I don't even need to add this why am I
being such a stupid
guy wait let me just copy it so that I I
know what's up
dude anytime you change this thing it
has to recile the whole freaking
thing
for
e
e e
I think I'm going to ask uh my dad to
see if we have jst sh because
I I really don't want to spend $20 just
to get this debug probe
thing plus there's no reviews on this
thing at
all also why do these look so big
I mean I'd be so mad if I spent $10 on
this and then
like okay wait let's see if it's done
compiling
okay first off let's remove let's remove
all this stuff that I don't think I
actually need and let's recompile
it I'm pretty sure okay wait D format
right wait oh wait you know what my code
is out of date
wa oh yeah here's what's what's
happening
wait let me have a couple of them where
where it works for
okay I feel like that might be the end
of this
stream
is brother I just lose a follower what
the f
[__]
okay not cool not
cool let's see does anyone actually
respond to issues
what you say you
wow dude I'm waiting for the Pico W the
pico2 W but like honestly the Pico W is
probably
fine
e e
okay it seems
like should I send it it's only $10
I'm just going to be so mad if
it kind of really don't like the vibe I
get from this
but these are um
male
whatever I do want to probe though I
really
do I mean this does look like a
jst
um hold
on
e
e e
[Music]
all right so I'm about to end the stream
and uh I'll probably restart it to do
this CAD work for this woodworking
project that I need to do but uh where
did we get what did we do in the past 4
hours and 40 minutes we um the first
thing we did is we hooked up the
Raspberry Pi to the time of flight
sensor then we got a python reading from
it and we were able to read it and we
tested that it worked by doing this so
that was really great that worked super
easily the next thing we wanted to do
was start to see if rust is faster on
this you know if we can sample faster
not that we need it for this case but we
need it for our magnetic encoder we want
that to be as fast as possible so that
we can read the fastest RPM possible
because my drone Motors are 1450 KV and
at 12 volts that gives me a a upper
bound of my RPM being about 177,000 a
little higher than
17,000 and so basically we um we want to
run rust because it's sick on the
Raspberry p so uh we are able to use
this thing called Embassy which is an
embedded platform that is written in
Rust to do a couple of things the the
the main thing that we accomplished was
being able to Blink the
LED uh on the Pico and Flash it and sort
of learn how
the the rust workflow for the Raspberry
Pi
Works uh then the basically back half of
this stream we just spent two hours two
and a half hours I don't know how long
it really was
debugging why it is we cannot print to
the terminal and I'm sure that it's my
fault and it's just a bunch of silly
[__] but that is basically where we're
at
and I hope was that we'd be able to
actually maybe in a future stream we'll
do it is get this time of flight sensor
working in Rust and then we can finally
confirm whether or not rust is